# OH Schools Team 2

## OH School Data Notes

According to the US Department of Education, 1 in 5 high school students fail to graduate within four years, but at risk students are typically only identified late in high school after significant red flags. This project works with data from the Muskingum Valley Education Service Center (MVESC) with the goal of supplementing educators' intuitions to provider an earlier warning about which students are in need of targeted interventions. MVESC provides services to 16 school districts in 5 counties in rural southeastern Ohio, reaching more than 30,000 pre-K to high school students annually.

MVESC has provided longitudinal data for seven of the districts it works with dating back to the 2006-2007 school year (except Ridgewood county, which starts in 2007), including information about grades, absences, standardized tests, and withdrawl information. Raw data was provided as a set of SQL Server backups, CSV files, and Exel files and has been ingested into a postgres database. These raw data can be found in several tables in the `public` schema, however, initial cleaning, consolidation, and recoding has been performed to generate the tables in the `clean` schema with a student-level identifier, `student_lookup`. These include:
- **Grades**: Information about courses and grades is available in `clean.all_grades` and derived from the underlying raw tables with "grade" in the table name. Note that the course grades are in the `mark` column while the `grade` column indicates the grade level of the student. These data have also been aggregated to an overall GPA for high school students in `clean.high_school_gpa` on a 4-point scale.
- **Absences**: Data about absences and tardiness is found in `clean.all_absences` and derived from underlying raw tables with "absence" in the table name. Note that the `absence_code` is not standardized across schools and the `absence_desc` has been consolidated from the underlying data.
- **Test Scores**: Scores from standardized tests --- including Ohio Achievement Assessment (OAA), Ohio Graduation Test (OGT), Kindergarten Readiness Assessment for Literacy (KRA-L) --- are provided in `clean.oaaogt`. The OAA results are broken out by grade level and subject area and for all tests listed, columns ending with `_ss` indicate a numeric score and those ending with `_pl` indicate a placement level. On the OGT, scores of 400 or higher are considered passing in each subject area and scores fall into five [performance levels](http://ogt.success-ode-state-oh-us.info/resources/levelsMean.htm).
- **Interventions**: The `clean.interventions` table describes students who have received various types of interventions (e.g., special academic programs or instruction, extracurricular programs, etc.) in a given year. The underlying data tables are those beginning with `INV`. Notes that the "membership codes" relate to the program description --- a lookup can be found in `public."INV_MembershipCodes"`.
- **Student Information**: The `clean.all_snapshots` table contains student-level information about demographics, special needs, discipline (including in-school suspension `iss` and out-of-school suspension `oss`), etc. In this table, `section_504_plan` referrs to accomadations for students with disabilities under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and `IRN` referrs to an "Information Retrevial Number" that is used by the Ohio Department of Education to identify entities that interact with it (schools, districts, etc) which can be searched [here](https://oeds.ode.state.oh.us/SearchOrg).
